# 4.4.5-4.4.7

## 4.4.5 Horse Racing

- History:
    - Horse racing has a very long history in Britain.
    - Evidence of events dates back to **Roman times**.
    - The sport has a long association with royalty.
- Locations:
    - Racecourses are located all over the UK.
- Famous Events:
    - *Royal Ascot*: A five-day race meeting in *Berkshire*, attended by the *Royal Family*.
    - *Grand National*: Held at Aintree, near Liverpool.
    - *Scottish Grand National*: Held at Ayr.
- Museum:
    - The National Horseracing Museum is in Newmarket, Suffolk.

## 4.4.6 Golf

- Origins: The modern game of golf can be traced back to **15th-century Scotland**.
- Popularity: It is a popular sport played socially as well as professionally.
- Facilities: There are public and private golf courses all over the UK.
- **St Andrews**: St Andrews in Scotland is known as the *home of golf*.
- *The Open Championship*: The Open Championship is the only *‘Major’* tournament held outside the United States.
    - It is hosted by a different golf course every year.

## 4.4.7 Tennis

- Origins:
    - Modern tennis evolved in England in the late *19th century.*
- *First Club*:
    - The first tennis club was founded in **Leamington Spa** in 1874.
- Famous Tournament:
    - The **Wimbledon Championships** is the most famous tournament held in Britain.
    - It takes place annually at the *All England Lawn Tennis* and *Croquet Club*.  
    - It's the *oldest tennis tournament* in the world.  
    - It's the only Grand Slam event played on grass.  

## 4.4.8 Water Sports

- **Sailing**:
    - Sailing remains popular in the UK, reflecting its maritime history.  
    - *Sir Francis Chichester* was the first person to sail single-handed around the world (1966/67).  
    - *Sir Robin Knox-Johnston* was the first person to do this non-stop.
    - Many sailing events are held, the most famous being at Cowes on the Isle of Wight.  
- **Rowing**:
    - Rowing is also popular (leisure and competition).
    - The Oxford and Cambridge Universities boat race is a well-known annual event on the Thames.  

## 4.4.9 Motor Sports

- History: There is a long history of motor sport in the UK (cars and motorcycles).  
- Beginnings: Motor-car racing began in the UK in *1902.*
- Industry:
    - The UK is a world leader in motor-sport technology development and manufacture.  
- *Formula 1*:
    - A Formula 1 Grand Prix is held in the UK every year.
- Several British drivers have won the Formula 1 World Championship (*Damon Hill, Lewis Hamilton, Jenson Button*).

## 4.4.10 Skiing

- Popularity: Skiing is increasingly popular in the UK.
- Practice: Many people go abroad to ski, but there are also dry ski slopes in the UK.  
- Snow Skiing:
    - Skiing on snow is possible in the winter.
- Scotland:
    - There are five ski centers in Scotland.  
- Edinburgh:
    - Europe’s longest dry ski slope is near Edinburgh.